SECTION 1.

Q1 :  Import Mode loads the data from the source into Power BI's in-memory storage (VertiPaq engine).
      This provides fast report performance, full DAX functionality, and allows users to work with the data even when the original source is unavailable.
      However, the data must be refreshed to reflect any changes in the source.

      DirectQuery Mode does not store the data in Power BI.
      Instead, Power BI sends queries directly to the data source whenever a user interacts with the report.
      This enables access to near real-time data and supports very large datasets,
      but report performance depends on the speed of the underlying data source and some DAX features may be limited

      For a static CSV file, Import Mode is the most suitable option because the data does not change frequently and does not require real-time access. Import Mode offers faster performance

Q2.   If a Sales column is stored as the Text data type, a Card visual cannot correctly perform numerical calculations such as Sum, Average,
      or Total Sales. The values may be treated as text strings instead of numbers, causing the Card visual to display incorrect results,
      show a count of records instead of the sales total, or generate an error.

      To fix this issue, the data type should be changed from Text to a numeric type such as Whole Number or Decimal Number.
      The best place to correct this is in Power Query Editor during the data preparation and transformation stage before loading the data into the Power BI model.

Q3.  To change a bar chart's sort order from alphabetical to descending by value in Power BI, select the bar chart visual, then click the More Options (three dots "...")
     menu located in the top-right corner of the visual. Choose Sort by, select the value field (such as Sales), and then select Descending.

Q4.  Filtering in Power Query is applied during the data preparation stage before the data is loaded into the Power BI model.
     Records removed in Power Query are excluded from the dataset entirely, so all report visuals, calculations, and measures only work with the filtered data.
     As a result, every visual in the report is affected.

     A Visual-Level Top N Filter is applied only to a specific visual after the data has been loaded into the model.
     It limits the displayed items in that visual, such as showing the Top 10 products by sales, while the underlying dataset remains unchanged.
     Other visuals in the report continue to use the complete dataset unless separate filters are applied to them.

     Therefore, Power Query filtering affects the entire report dataset, whereas a Visual-Level Top N filter affects only the selected visual and does not impact other report visuals.

Q5.  DAX CODE :  
    Sales % of Total =
      DIVIDE(
        SUM(Sales[SalesAmount]),
        CALCULATE(
        SUM(Sales[SalesAmount]),
        ALL(Sales[Region])
                 )
            )

     After creating the measure, format it as a Percentage and use it in the Values field of the bar chart instead of the Sales Amount field.
     The chart will then display each region's contribution to total sales as a percentage rather than an absolute value.

Q6.  Hardcoded file paths in a Power BI (.pbix) file point to a specific location on the creator's computer, such as C:\Users\Yash\Documents\SalesData.csv.
     When the PBIX file is shared with another user, that exact file path usually does not exist on their computer.
     As a result, Power BI cannot locate the data source, causing refresh failures and broken reports.

    To make a report portable, avoid using machine-specific file paths. Instead, store data files in a shared location such as a network drive,
    SharePoint, or OneDrive that all users can access. Another best practice is to use Power Query parameters so users can easily update the data source location without modifying the report logic.
    This ensures that the report can be opened and refreshed successfully by different users across different environments.
